# YouTube-dataset-analysis
The given dataset contains 27 different columns, of which the first column is the index column. The index number is unique to every row, thus it can be defined as the primary key for every row that has a unique number identifying it. The other 26 remaining columns contain YouTube-related data, with the channel ID column being the unique ID of every channel.

The following columns are divided by categories: positive correlation, negative correlation, unknown correlation, and unrelated correlation. In positive correlation, YouTube channel owners will want to maximize the amount to gain success. In negative correlation, YouTube channel owners will want to minimize the amount to gain success. In unknown correlation, the effect on the channel success of changing the amount or type of the factor is yet unknown. In unrelated correlation, the column data is unrelated to the channel success.

Positive correlation factors include subscriber count, channel view count, channel comment count, video view count, likes/dislikes, and video like count. Negative correlation factors include dislikes/subscriber, dislikes/views, and video dislike count. Unknown correlation factors include video category ID, video count, views/subscribers, channel elapsed time, video ID, total views/channel elapsed time, comments/views, comments/subscriber, likes/subscriber, likes/views, total videos/video count, elapsed time, total views/total subs, views/elapsed time, video published, and video comment count. Unrelated correlation factors include Index and Channel ID.

To achieve the objective, a comparison will be made between factors with known correlation outcomes to factors with unknown correlation outcomes. This method will help draw conclusions about the factors with unknown correlations to success. This comparison will give results that will hopefully aid the YouTube channel owner in improving their channel's success.

The objective is to aid the YouTube channel owner in improving or maintaining their user base, and to achieve this, various factors will be considered. A logical assumption is that a channel owner will want to maximize their number of subscriptions, views, and likes, and minimize their number of dislikes. A large number of likes and views for a specific video can be seen as short-term success, while a large number of subscriptions or a large number of likes and views per channel can be seen as long-term success.

To amend this problem of partial information, more substantial usage will be made with data that is divided by values which represent the channel's popularity, such as the number of subscriptions or views. The channel that has the most subscriptions or the video that has the most likes/views divided by a factor that represents the video/channel popularity, such as the number of subscriptions, will give a scale of the video/channel success.
